It is interesting to learn about the different methods to store values in programming. Having covered the topics of arrays and arraylists this week, it is also to see how they differ from methods in other languages such as C++. Now when we look at arrays, and arraylists, one of the big differences that we find is that arrays have a fixed size when the code runs, whereas array lists are more dynamic, meaning they have certain functions that allow them to be changed even after the code begins running.

When looking at arrays, we know that the arrays typically require two steps to be created. First the array variable must be declared, to establish it, then the array is initialized using the reserved word "new". An important aspect in this process is to make sure that variable type of the array and elements in the array are the same. In other words, int values = new double[10], would not work because we have two different variable types.&nbsp;

As mentioned earlier, when we look at arraylists, unlike arrays that are restricted by a fixed size, we do not need to establish an array size for array lists. Another advantage to this aspect of arraylists is that it is useful to use when we do not know the size of array that we want or need. While it may run slower than a regular array, it ultimately is more effective because if the arrays become larger, and we want to make sure that we have enough space in a standard array, we may ultimately need to take up too much un-needed space. For those who have seen C++, arraylists are essentially the equivalent to vectors in C++, however are not called vectors in Java as that refers to something else we have not covered at this time.
